Answers to Chapter 1 Exercises

1. An activity that I do most days is eating dinner. Computers are directly or indirectly involved in this process in ways that include the farming of the produce that becomes the meal, the processing of the raw produce into the meal, the transportation of the raw and finished materials involved in making the meal, the stocking of the meal ingredients at the local grocery stores, using a car to drive the meal ingredients back to the residence, using cooking appliances to prepare the meal, the manufacture and transport of the eating equipment including utensils and dishes to the residence, and the cleaning of the eating equipment using the dishwasher.

2. A profession that I have some interest in or some knowledge of is Optical Engineering. A list of activities done by people in that profession that involve computers includes the construction and operation of telescopes, the construction and operation of biomedical equipment, the construction and operation of fiber optics, and the construction and operation of optical computers.

3. This is at the moment (ATM) to be continued (TBC).

4. From my own experience, an activity that would not have been possible without computers is the invention of games that utilize three-dimensional graphics.

5. A list of programs that I have directly used includes Angry Birds, Duolingo, Discord, Facebook, Stackoverflow, and Whatsapp.

6. A list of ten activities that people do that do not involve computers in any way includes sleeping, breathing, seeing, hearing, touching, thinking, dreaming, tasting, feeling, and hoping.

7. Five tasks for which computers are not used today but for which I think they will be used at some time in the future include understanding, processing emotion, innovating, associating judgement and reasoning, and digesting nutrients.
Computers will be used in the future for understanding because of the innovations that have been occuring in the fields of machine learning and artificial intelligence. Computers are now able to process large amounts of information about very specific topics using large language models (LLMs). These LLMs provide computers with the ability to answer questions in a way that mimics human understanding.
Computers will be used in the future for processing emotion because of the invention of neural chips and wet ware computers. These computers mimic the information processing organs of living creatures. Further research into these types of computing will shed light on how living things feel emotions and will eventually allow computers using these types of hardware to feel emotions as well.
Computers will be used in the future for innovating because of the pursuit of the concept of artifical general intelligence (AGI). AGI is the idea that computers will be self-aware and able to interate on themselves by learning in a way that is almost identical to how humans learn. It is possible that humans are seen as special because of their ability to innovate, which is a facility that computers lack at this point in time. This is something that will change in the future with further understanding of how the human brain works and its translation into computer hardware and software.
Computers will be used in the future for associating judgement and reasoning because this is a capability that humans have and that researchers in machine learning are aiming to include in their hardware and algorithms. Humans are able to first reason about a problem using tools such as critical thinking in order to arrive at a sound judgement. Computers are good currently at making judgements but are lacking in the area of reasoning compared to humans. This is a difference gap that is being rapidly closed through research on LLMs.
Computers will be used in the future for digesting nutrients because this is something that will help people who have diseases, injuries, and disorders due to genetic factors that prevent them from being able to properly digest food. Computers can assist with these complications by simplifying the processing of food into intermediate and final forms for easier digestion either in the form of a machine inside of a person or a machine outside of the person. This is a task that computers are no where close to being able to complete due to the lack of a general scientific understanding of how biological digestion is able to perform this task.

8. I would like to be a computer programmer so that I can solve problems that need to be solved in the world today. One of those problems is general societal issues that involve the interacction of systems created by people and the people with each other within and between those systems. A specific example is the issue of the election of political officials directly and indirectly by citizen voters in a modern democratic republic. Understanding this problem requires a thorough comprehension of the dynamics of human interaction. This can be best understood through fields of study including psychology and sociology. Computers enable the facilitation of such studies through the quantification of social dynamics into computer code. These computer programs can then be utilized by end users such as polsters such that they can effectively communicate with voter bases. This leads to a better understanding on the part of the voters of the democratic process of electing officials and hopefully lead to more transparency in democratic societies. This is something that I would very much like to contribute to as a budding computer programmer.

9. The role other than programmer that I would like to play in the computer industry would have to be a mathematician or statistician. Much of by academic background is in physics and engineering which requires a great deal of math and statistics knowledge. This is knowledge that I can use to contribute to issues facing society today. Political teams are always in need of people who can understand how to collect data, model the data in visual and numerical formats, and draw valid conclusions based on the data. This is a skill which I have learned in my several years of higher education as a major in Physics with a minor in Mathematics and my one year of graduate studies as a student in Optical Engineering.

10. I do think that computers will develop to be conscious, thinking beings, capable of competing with humans. Computers are already able to outperform humans by vast margins in intellectual pursuits which humans previously thought themselves to be the masters of including chess, go, Jeopardy!, etc. This will evolve into other human activities such as cooking, painting, construction, and child care. Computers are not currently considered to be conscious, but this is something that will change in the future. This is due to advances in ML and AI. These advances are leading to new forms of computing hardware such as neuromorphic computing, optical computing, and quantum computing. There are arguments by authors such as Brian Greene that human consciousness relies partially on quantum mechanical effects. Whether or not this is true, the further development of and software applications designed for quantum computers could potentially lead to a better understanding of the emergent phenomenon of human consciousness. Optical computing development could allow a better glimpse into how organs such as the human eye are able to process such vast quantities of visual information that the brain is then able to reconstruct and interpret. Machine learning models that mimic neuronal processing built to run on these optical computers might make this biological feat more transparent and replicable. Image visualisation in the brain is one of the main components of dreaming and daydreaming in humans, and understanding the nature of human image processing - image processing being one of the first applications of optical processors and today remains the most natural choice for image processing - could make the nature of consciousness more comprehensible. Finally, neuromorphic computers aim to mimic the biological processors in animals including humans. Two choices of hardware for this task in the computing world are silicon processors and wet ware computers. Wet ware computers are generated by growing cultures of neurons until they resemble a small brain. These small brains have been used in the scientific research communities for processing information that a normal silicon computer would usually process. Understanding the differences between how wet ware computers process this information in contrast to silicon chips will allow a better understanding of consciousness and will allow computers to be built that are conscious themselves.

11. Some characteristics that most successful programmers share are the ability to work well with other programmers and with the people in other professions that work directly or indirectly with programmers, to truly enjoy the work that they are doing and its impact on the world around them, to be able to work for long periods of time on the same task while not growing bored of it, to have a goal in mind that they are trying to achieve with their work in programming, and to have a growth mindset where every challenge that they face in their work is met with grit, persistence and overall an undampened enthusiasm and excitement. Some characteristics that programmers are popularly assumed to have include lack of any friends or very few social contacts, a living arrangement in a warehouse, moving van or the basement room in the house of another person, a drive to improve the world following an ideal that only they can understand and wish that the rest of the world would understand and accept, and a god-like ability to hack into corporate and government computer servers that is perceived by outsiders to be a mystical and magical feat that no one else in the world could do.

12. A few of the applications for computer programs mentioned in this chapter include the entertainment industry, the ship building industry, street traffic monitoring, train logistics and operation, and energy extraction and production. The application out of these listed that I find the most interesting and that I would most likely want to participate in someday is energy extraction and production. Energy extraction and production is one of the most important requirements of a modern day functioning society in any part of the world. If these processes are disrupted in any way shape or form, the human toll is unforgivable and should in any way be prevented. This application is necessary for people to carry about their daily lives without hiccup or major disruption. Power outages result in the loss of human lives, the loss of productivity, and increased stress and lack of relaxing downtime for human populations in different areas of the globe. The increasing technological sophistication of developing societies increasingly requires more and more use of critical energy resources, of which a diversification of these resources is needed due to hard to access energy resources and shifting climate catastrophies. Computers enable the green revolution to take place that offers alternative forms of energy to help ensure that there is always enough energy for the people of the nations around the world to use as needed.

13. (a) This page contains approximately 75 characters per line of text and contains approximately 40 lines of characters, including spaces and punctuation marks. 75 times 40 equals 3000 characters on this page. Since each character is represented by one byte, this page contains 3000 bytes of information or 3 kilobytes (KB) of text data. (b) This chapter contains approximately 30 pages of text, assuming no pictures and replacing empty spaces in pages with text. Using the prior calculation in part (a), 3 kilobytes of text data per page on average multiplied by 30 pages filled with text in this chapter equals 90 KB of text data. (c) According to opensourceshakespeare.org, all of Shakespeare's works combined total approximately 900,000 words. Assuming the average word length in his works measures approximately 5 characters, this would result in there being 900,000 words multiplied by 5 characters per word which equals 4,500,000 characters. Assuming one character per byte, this would result in there being approximately 4,500,000 bytes of text data or 4.5 megabytes (MB) of text data in all of Shakespeare's works combined.

14. My computer has a total of 32 gigabytes (GB) of RAM memory and approximately 6 terabytes (TB) of storage memory.
